---
title: man_8_iked
date: 2011-02-01
tags:
---
IKED(8)                 OpenBSD System Manager's Manual                IKED(8)

NAME
     iked - Internet Key Exchange version 2 (IKEv2) daemon

SYNOPSIS
     iked [-dnSTv] [-D _____=_____] [-f ____]

DESCRIPTION
     iked is an Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) daemon which performs mutual
     authentication and which establishes and maintains IPsec flows and
     security associations (SAs) between the two peers.

     The IKEv2 protocol is defined in RFC 4306, which combines and updates the
     previous standards: ISAKMP/Oakley (RFC 2408), IKE (RFC 2409), and the
     Internet DOI (RFC 2407).  iked only supports the IKEv2 protocol; support
     for ISAKMP/Oakley and IKEv1 is provided by isakmpd(8).

     iked supports mutual authentication using RSA public keys and X.509
     certificates.  See the _____ section below and ___ ___ ___________
     _________ ________ in ikectl(8) for more information about creating and
     maintaining the public key infrastructure.

     The options are as follows:

     -D _____=_____
             Define _____ to be set to _____ on the command line.  Overrides
             the definition of _____ in the configuration file.

     -d      Do not daemonize and log to ______.

     -f ____
             Use ____ as the configuration file, instead of the default
             ______________.

     -n      Configtest mode.  Only check the configuration file for validity.

     -S      Start iked in passive mode.  See the set passive option in
             iked.conf(5) for more information.

     -T      Disable NAT-Traversal and do not propose NAT-Traversal support to
             the peers.

     -v      Produce more verbose output.

FILES
     ______________         The default iked configuration file.
     _____________          The directory where CA certificates are kept.
     ________________       The directory where IKE certificates are kept,
                            both the local certificate(s) and those of the
                            peers, if a choice to have them kept permanently
                            has been made.
     _______________        The directory where CRLs are kept.
     __________________     The directory where local private keys used for
                            public key authentication are kept.  The file
                            _________ is used to store the local private key.
     __________________     The directory in which trusted public keys are
                            kept.  The keys must be named in the fashion
                            described above.
     __________________     The default iked control socket.

SEE ALSO
     iked.conf(5), ikectl(8), isakmpd(8)

     ________ ___ ________ _______ ________, RFC 4306, December 2005.

HISTORY
     The iked program first appeared in OpenBSD 4.8.

AUTHORS
     The iked program was written by Reyk Floeter <reyk@vantronix.net>.

CAVEATS
     iked is not yet finished and is missing some important security features.
     It should not yet be used in production networks.

OpenBSD 4.8                   September 30, 2010                   OpenBSD 4.8
