---
title: man_5_ipsec.conf
date: 2011-01-06
tags:
---

##NOMBRE
     ```ipsec.conf``` - Archivo de configuración de IPsec

##DESCRIPCIÓN
     The ipsec.conf file specifies rules and definitions for IPsec, which
     provides security services for IP datagrams.  IPsec itself is a pair of
     protocols: Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP), which provides integrity
     and confidentiality; and Authentication Header (AH), which provides
     integrity.  The IPsec protocol itself is described in ipsec(4).

     In its most basic form, a ____ is established between hosts and/or
     networks, and then Security Associations (__) are established, which
     detail how the desired protection will be achieved.  IPsec uses flows to
     determine whether to apply security services to an IP packet or not.

     Generally speaking an automated keying daemon, such as isakmpd(8), is
     used to set up flows and establish SAs, by specifying an `ike' line in
     ipsec.conf (see _________ ______, below).  An authentication method, such
     as public key authentication, will also have to be set up: see the ___
     section of isakmpd(8) for information on the types of authentication
     available, and the procedures for setting them up.

     The keying daemon, isakmpd(8), can be enabled to run at boot time via the
     _____________ variable in rc.conf.local(8).  Note that it will probably
     need to be run with at least the -K option, to avoid keynote(4) policy
     checking.  The ipsec.conf configuration itself is loaded at boot time if
     the variable _____ is set to YES in rc.conf.local(8).  A utility called
     ipsecctl(8) is also available to load ipsec.conf configurations, and can
     additionally be used to view and modify IPsec flows.

     An alternative method of setting up SAs is also possible using manual
     keying.  Manual keying is not recommended, but can be convenient for
     quick setups and testing.  Those procedures are documented within this
     page.

!FORMATO DEL ARCHIVO IPSEC.CONF
     Lines beginning with `#' and empty lines are regarded as comments, and
     ignored.  Lines may be split using the `\' character.

     Addresses can be specified in CIDR notation (matching netblocks), as
     symbolic host names, interface names, or interface group names.

     Certain parameters can be expressed as lists, in which case ipsecctl(8)
     generates all the necessary combinations.  For example:

           ike esp from {192.168.1.1, 192.168.1.2} to \
                   {10.0.0.17, 10.0.0.18} peer 192.168.10.1

     Will expand to:

           ike esp from 192.168.1.1 to 10.0.0.17 peer 192.168.10.1
           ike esp from 192.168.1.1 to 10.0.0.18 peer 192.168.10.1
           ike esp from 192.168.1.2 to 10.0.0.17 peer 192.168.10.1
           ike esp from 192.168.1.2 to 10.0.0.18 peer 192.168.10.1

     Macros can be defined that will later be expanded in context.  Macro
     names must start with a letter, and may contain letters, digits and
     underscores.  Macro names may not be reserved words (for example flow,
     from, esp).  Macros are not expanded inside quotes.

     For example:

           remote_gw = "192.168.3.12"
           flow esp from 192.168.7.0/24 to 192.168.8.0/24 peer $remote_gw

     Additional configuration files can be included with the include keyword,
     for example:

           include "/etc/macros.conf"

!ADMINISTRACIÓN AUTOMÁTICA DE CLAVES
     In this scenario, ipsec.conf is used to set up flows and SAs
     automatically using isakmpd(8) with the ISAKMP/Oakley a.k.a. IKEv1
     protocol.  To configure automatic keying using the IKEv2 protocol, see
     iked.conf(5) instead.  Some examples of setting up automatic keying:

        # Set up a VPN:
        # First between the gateway machines 192.168.3.1 and 192.168.3.2
        # Second between the networks 10.1.1.0/24 and 10.1.2.0/24
        ike esp from 192.168.3.1 to 192.168.3.2
        ike esp from 10.1.1.0/24 to 10.1.2.0/24 peer 192.168.3.2

     The commands are as follows:

     ike [____] [_____] [_____]
           ____ specifies the IKEv1 mode to use: one of _______, ______, or
           _______.  When _______ is specified, isakmpd(8) will not
           immediately start negotiation of this tunnel, but wait for an
           incoming request from the remote peer.  When ______ or _______ is
           specified, negotiation will be started at once.  The _______ mode
           will additionally enable Dead Peer Detection (DPD) and use the
           local hostname as the identity of the local peer, if not specified
           by the srcid parameter.  _______ mode should be used for hosts with
           dynamic IP addresses like road warriors or dialup hosts.  If
           omitted, ______ mode will be used.

           _____ specifies the encapsulation protocol to be used.  Possible
           protocols are ___ and __; the default is ___.

           _____ describes the encapsulation mode to be used.  Possible modes
           are ______ and _________; the default is ______.

     proto ________
           The optional proto parameter restricts the flow to a specific IP
           protocol.  Common protocols are icmp(4), tcp(4), and udp(4).  For a
           list of all the protocol name to number mappings used by
           ipsecctl(8), see the file ______________.

     from ___ [port _____] [(______)] to ___ [port _____]
           This rule applies for packets with source address ___ and
           destination address ___.  The keyword ___ will match any address
           (i.e. 0.0.0.0/0).  If the ___ argument specifies a fictional source
           ID, the ______ parameter can be used to specify the actual source
           address.  This can be used in outgoing NAT/BINAT scenarios as
           described below.  Host addresses are parsed as type ``IPV4_ADDR'';
           adding the suffix /32 will change the type to ``IPV4_ADDR_SUBNET'',
           which can improve interoperability with some IKEv1 implementations.

           The optional port modifiers restrict the flows to the specified
           ports.  They are only valid in conjunction with the tcp(4) and
           udp(4) protocols.  Ports can be specified by number or by name.
           For a list of all port name to number mappings used by ipsecctl(8),
           see the file _____________.

     local _______ peer ______
           The local parameter specifies the address or FQDN of the local
           endpoint.  Unless we are multi-homed or have aliases, this option
           is generally not needed.

           The peer parameter specifies the address or FQDN of the remote
           endpoint.  For host-to-host connections where ___ is identical to
           ______, this option is generally not needed as it will be set to
           ___ automatically.  If it is not specified or if the keyword ___ is
           given, the default peer is used.

     ____ auth _________ enc _________ group _____
           These parameters define the mode and cryptographic transforms to be
           used for the phase 1 negotiation.  During phase 1 the machines
           authenticate and set up an encrypted channel.

           The mode can be either ____, which specifies main mode, or
           __________, which specifies aggressive mode.  Possible values for
           auth, enc, and group are described below in ______ __________.

           If omitted, ipsecctl(8) will use the default values ____,
           _________, ___, and ________.

     quick auth _________ enc _________ group _____
           These parameters define the cryptographic transforms to be used for
           the phase 2 negotiation.  During phase 2 the actual IPsec
           negotiations happen.

           Possible values for auth, enc, and group are described below in
           ______ __________.  If group is specified, Perfect Forward Security
           (PFS) is used.  If the value ____ is used, PFS is disabled.

           If omitted, ipsecctl(8) will use the default values _____________
           and ___; PFS will only be used if the remote side requests it.

     srcid ______ dstid ______
           srcid defines an ID of type ``USER_FQDN'' or ``FQDN'' that will be
           used by isakmpd(8) as the identity of the local peer.  If the
           argument is an email address (bob@example.com), ipsecctl(8) will
           use USER_FQDN as the ID type.  Anything else is considered to be an
           FQDN.  If srcid is omitted, the default is to use the IP address of
           the connecting machine.

           dstid is similar to srcid, but instead specifies the ID to be used
           by the remote peer.

     psk ______
           Use a pre-shared key ______ for authentication.  If this option is
           not specified, public key authentication is used (see isakmpd(8)).

     tag ______
           Add a pf(4) tag to all packets of phase 2 SAs created for this
           connection.  This will allow matching packets for this connection
           by defining rules in pf.conf(5) using the tagged keyword.

           The following variables can be used in tags to include information
           from the remote peer on runtime:

                 ___      The remote phase 1 ID.  It will be expanded to
                          ________________, e.g. ________________.
                 _______  Extract the domain from IDs of type FQDN or UFQDN.

           For example, if the ID is ________________ or __________________,
           ``ipsec-$domain'' expands to ``ipsec-bar.org''.  The variable
           expansion for the ___ directive occurs only at runtime, not during
           configuration file parse time.

!FILTRADO DE PAQUETES
     IPsec traffic appears unencrypted on the enc(4) interface and can be
     filtered accordingly using the OpenBSD packet filter, pf(4).  The grammar
     for the packet filter is described in pf.conf(5).

     The following components are relevant to filtering IPsec traffic:

           external interface
           Interface for ISAKMP traffic and encapsulated IPsec traffic.

           proto udp port 500
           ISAKMP traffic on the external interface.

           proto udp port 4500
           ISAKMP NAT-Traversal traffic on the external interface.

           proto ah | esp
           Encapsulated IPsec traffic on the external interface.

           enc0
           Interface for outgoing traffic before it's been encapsulated, and
           incoming traffic after it's been decapsulated.  State on this
           interface should be interface bound; see enc(4) for further
           information.

           proto ipencap
           [tunnel mode only] IP-in-IP traffic flowing between gateways on the
           enc0 interface.

           tagged ipsec-example.org
           Match traffic of phase 2 SAs using the tag keyword.

     If the filtering rules specify to block everything by default, the
     following rule would ensure that IPsec traffic never hits the packet
     filtering engine, and is therefore passed:

           set skip on enc0

     In the following example, all traffic is blocked by default.  IPsec-
     related traffic from gateways {192.168.3.1, 192.168.3.2} and networks
     {10.0.1.0/24, 10.0.2.0/24} is permitted.

           block on sk0
           block on enc0

           pass  in on sk0 proto udp from 192.168.3.2 to 192.168.3.1 \
                   port {500, 4500}
           pass out on sk0 proto udp from 192.168.3.1 to 192.168.3.2 \
                   port {500, 4500}

           pass  in on sk0 proto esp from 192.168.3.2 to 192.168.3.1
           pass out on sk0 proto esp from 192.168.3.1 to 192.168.3.2

           pass  in on enc0 proto ipencap from 192.168.3.2 to 192.168.3.1 \
                   keep state (if-bound)
           pass out on enc0 proto ipencap from 192.168.3.1 to 192.168.3.2 \
                   keep state (if-bound)
           pass  in on enc0 from 10.0.2.0/24 to 10.0.1.0/24 \
                   keep state (if-bound)
           pass out on enc0 from 10.0.1.0/24 to 10.0.2.0/24 \
                   keep state (if-bound)

     pf(4) has the ability to filter IPsec-related packets based on an
     arbitrary ___ specified within a ruleset.  The tag is used as an internal
     marker which can be used to identify the packets later on.  This could be
     helpful, for example, in scenarios where users are connecting in from
     differing IP addresses, or to support queue-based bandwidth control,
     since the enc0 interface does not support it.

     The following pf.conf(5) fragment uses queues for all IPsec traffic with
     special handling for developers and employees:

           altq on sk0 cbq bandwidth 1000Mb \
                   queue { deflt, developers, employees, ipsec }
               queue deflt bandwidth 10% priority 0 cbq(default ecn)
               queue developers bandwidth 75% priority 7 cbq(borrow red)
               queue employees bandwidth 5% cbq(red)
               queue ipsec bandwidth 10% cbq(red)

           pass out on sk0 proto esp queue ipsec

           pass out on sk0 tagged ipsec-developers.bar.org queue developers
           pass out on sk0 tagged ipsec-employees.bar.org queue employees

     The tags will be assigned by the following ipsec.conf example:

           ike esp from 10.1.1.0/24 to 10.1.2.0/24 peer 192.168.3.2 \
                   tag ipsec-$domain

!TRADUCCIÓN DE DIRECCINES DE RED DE SALIDA
     In some network topologies it is desirable to perform NAT on traffic
     leaving through the VPN tunnel.  In order to achieve that, the ___
     argument is used to negotiate the desired network ID with the peer and
     the ______ parameter defines the true local subnet, so that a correct SA
     can be installed on the local side.

     For example, if the local subnet is 192.168.1.0/24 and all the traffic
     for a specific VPN peer should appear as coming from 10.10.10.1, the
     following configuration is used:

           ike esp from 10.10.10.1 (192.168.1.0/24) to 192.168.2.0/24 \
                   peer 10.10.20.1

     Naturally, a relevant NAT rule is required in pf.conf(5).  For the
     example above, this would be:

           match on enc0 from 192.168.1.0/24 to 192.168.2.0/24 nat-to 10.10.10.1

     From the peer's point of view, the local end of the VPN tunnel is
     declared to be 10.10.10.1 and all the traffic arrives with that source
     address.

!TRANSFORMACIONES CRIPTOGRÁFICAS
     It is very important that keys are not guessable.  One practical way of
     generating keys is to use openssl(1).  The following generates a 160-bit
     (20-byte) key:

           $ openssl rand 20 | hexdump -e '20/1 "%02x"'

     The following authentication types are permitted with the auth keyword:

           ______________      Key Length
           hmac-md5            128 bits
           hmac-ripemd160      160 bits      [phase 2 only]
           hmac-sha1           160 bits
           hmac-sha2-256       256 bits
           hmac-sha2-384       384 bits
           hmac-sha2-512       512 bits

     The following cipher types are permitted with the enc keyword:

           ______              Key Length
           des                 56 bits
           3des                168 bits
           aes                 128 bits
           aes-128             128 bits
           aes-192             192 bits
           aes-256             256 bits
           aesctr              160 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-128-gcm         160 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-192-gcm         224 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-256-gcm         288 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-128-gmac        160 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-192-gmac        224 bits      [phase 2 only]
           aes-256-gmac        288 bits      [phase 2 only]
           blowfish            160 bits
           cast                128 bits
           null                (none)        [phase 2 only]

     Use of DES as an encryption algorithm is not recommended (except for
     backwards compatibility) due to its short key length.

     DES requires 8 bytes to form a 56-bit key and 3DES requires 24 bytes to
     form its 168-bit key.  This is because the most significant bit of each
     byte is used for parity.

     The keysize of AES-CTR is actually 128-bit.  However as well as the key,
     a 32-bit nonce has to be supplied.  Thus 160 bits of key material have to
     be supplied.  The same applies to AES-GCM and AES-GMAC.

     Using AES-GMAC or NULL with ESP will only provide authentication.  This
     is useful in setups where AH can not be used, e.g. when NAT is involved.

     The following group types are permitted with the group keyword:

           _____               Size
           modp768             768           [DH group 1]
           modp1024            1024          [DH group 2]
           modp1536            1536          [DH group 5]
           modp2048            2048          [DH group 14]
           modp3072            3072          [DH group 15]
           modp4096            4096          [DH group 16]
           modp6144            6144          [DH group 17]
           modp8192            8192          [DH group 18]
           none                0             [phase 2 only]

!FLUJOS MANUALES
     In this scenario, ipsec.conf is used to set up flows manually.  IPsec
     uses flows to determine whether to apply security services to an IP
     packet or not.  Some examples of setting up flows:

        # Set up two flows:
        # First between the machines 192.168.3.14 and 192.168.3.100
        # Second between the networks 192.168.7.0/24 and 192.168.8.0/24
        flow esp from 192.168.3.14 to 192.168.3.100
        flow esp from 192.168.7.0/24 to 192.168.8.0/24 peer 192.168.3.12

     The following types of flow are available:

     flow esp
           ESP can provide the following properties: authentication,
           integrity, replay protection, and confidentiality of the data.  If
           no flow type is specified, this is the default.

     flow ah
           AH provides authentication, integrity, and replay protection, but
           not confidentiality.

     flow ipip
           IPIP does not provide authentication, integrity, replay protection,
           or confidentiality.  However, it does allow tunnelling of IP
           traffic over IP, without setting up gif(4) interfaces.

     The commands are as follows:

     in or out
           This rule applies to incoming or outgoing packets.  If neither in
           nor out are specified, ipsecctl(8) will assume the direction out
           for this rule and will construct a proper in rule.  Thus packets in
           both directions will be matched.

     proto ________
           The optional proto parameter restricts the flow to a specific IP
           protocol.  Common protocols are icmp(4), tcp(4), and udp(4).  For a
           list of all the protocol name to number mappings used by
           ipsecctl(8), see the file ______________.

     from ___ [port _____] to ___ [port _____]
           This rule applies for packets with source address ___ and
           destination address ___.  The keyword ___ will match any address
           (i.e. 0.0.0.0/0).  The optional port modifiers restrict the flows
           to the specified ports.  They are only valid in conjunction with
           the tcp(4) and udp(4) protocols.  Ports can be specified by number
           or by name.  For a list of all port name to number mappings used by
           ipsecctl(8), see the file _____________.

     local _______
           The local parameter specifies the address or FQDN of the local
           endpoint of this flow and can be usually left out.

     peer ______
           The peer parameter specifies the address or FQDN of the remote
           endpoint of this flow.  For host-to-host connections where ___ is
           identical to ______, the peer specification can be left out as it
           will be set to ___ automatically.  Only if the keyword ___ is given
           is a flow without peer created.

     type ________
           This optional parameter sets up special flows using modifiers.  By
           default, ipsecctl(8) will automatically set up normal flows with
           the corresponding type.  ________ may be one of the following:

                 acquire    Use IPsec and establish SAs dynamically.
                            Unencrypted traffic is permitted until it is
                            protected by IPsec.
                 bypass     Matching packets are not processed by IPsec.
                 deny       Matching packets are dropped.
                 dontacq    Use IPsec.  If no SAs are available, does not
                            trigger isakmpd(8).
                 require    Use IPsec and establish SAs dynamically.
                            Unencrypted traffic is not permitted until it is
                            protected by IPsec.
                 use        Use IPsec.  Unencrypted traffic is permitted.
                            Does not trigger isakmpd(8).

!ASOCIACIONES DE SEGURIDAD MANUALES
     In this scenario, ipsec.conf is used to set up SAs manually.  The
     security parameters for a flow are stored in the Security Association
     Database (SADB).  An example of setting up an SA:

        # Set up an IPsec SA for flows between 192.168.3.14 and 192.168.3.12
        esp from 192.168.3.14 to 192.168.3.12 spi 0xdeadbeef:0xbeefdead \
                authkey file "auth14:auth12" enckey file "enc14:enc12"

     Parameters specify the peers, Security Parameter Index (SPI),
     cryptographic transforms, and key material to be used.  The following
     rules enter SAs in the SADB:

           esp       Enter an ESP SA.
           ah        Enter an AH SA.
           ipip      Enter an IPIP pseudo SA.
           tcpmd5    Enter a TCP MD5 SA.

     The commands are as follows:

     ____  For ESP and AH the encapsulation mode can be specified.  Possible
           modes are ______ and _________.  When left out, ______ is chosen.
           For details on modes see ipsec(4).

     from ___ to ___
           This SA is for a ____ between the peers ___ and ___.

     spi ______
           The SPI identifies a specific SA.  ______ is a 32-bit value and
           needs to be unique.

     auth _________
           For ESP and AH an authentication algorithm can be specified.
           Possible values are described above in ______ __________.

           If no algorithm is specified, ipsecctl(8) will choose _____________
           by default.

     enc _________
           For ESP an encryption algorithm can be specified.  Possible values
           are described above in ______ __________.

           If no algorithm is specified, ipsecctl(8) will choose ___ by
           default.

     authkey _______
           _______ defines the authentication key to be used.  It is either a
           hexadecimal string or a path to a file containing the key.  The
           filename may be given as either an absolute path to the file or a
           relative pathname, and is specified as follows:

                 authkey file "filename"

     enckey _______
           The encryption key is defined similarly to authkey.

     tcpmd5 from ___ to ___ spi ______ authkey _______
           TCP MD5 signatures are generally used between BGP daemons, such as
           bgpd(8).  Since bgpd(8) itself already provides this functionality,
           this option is generally not needed.  More information on TCP MD5
           signatures can be found in tcp(4), bgpd.conf(5), and RFC 2385.

           This rule applies for packets with source address ___ and
           destination address ___.  The parameter spi is a 32-bit value
           defining the Security Parameter Index (SPI) for this SA.  The
           encryption key is defined similarly to authkey.

     Since an SA is directional, a second SA is normally configured in the
     reverse direction.  This is done by adding a second, colon-separated,
     value to spi, authkey, and enckey.

!VER TAMBIÉN
     openssl(1), enc(4), ipsec(4), tcp(4), pf.conf(5), ipsecctl(8), isakmpd(8)

!HISTORIA
     The ipsec.conf file format first appeared in OpenBSD 3.8.

OpenBSD 4.8                     October 6, 2010                    OpenBSD 4.8
